Greetings

My name is Abel, and today I will present the work on my thesis.
My work is an extension of
the method Dynamic Control of Infeasibility for equality constrained problems.
What I did was extend the method to handle inequalities and
bounds.

2
My work focused on extending the method's theory to the general optimization
problem and implementing the method with an interface based on the
CUTEst testing environment.

3
I consider a simple version of the nonlinear problem to develop the
theory.
From here, we introduce a

4
slack variable, obtaining an equality constrained problem. Finally,
we introduce
a logarithmic barrier function to handle the bounds and end with

5
an equality constrained problem with logarithmic bounding function.
The Lagrangian function for this problem is defined as such.

6
The method consists of composite steps, that is, it alternates between normal
and tangent steps, that reduces the primal and dual feasibility, respectively.

7
The flow of the algorithm is to make a normal step, verify optimality, proceed
to the tangent step, and restart the procedure.

9
To control these steps, we use what we call trust cylinders.
The cylinders are regions around the feasible set, and the iterates are
constrained to these cylinders.

9
We use two cylinders. An iteration consists of using the normal steps to find a
point inside the small cylinder, and then make a tangent step constrained to the
larger cylinder.

10
The normal step is obtained trying to minimize the infeasibility subject to the
bounds on the slack variables.

11
The tangent step is obtained trying to minimize the Lagrangian function without
changing the feasibility. This is chosen because it always has a feasible
solution.
However, this approximation, due to the logarithmic barrier, can be very
ill-conditioned. So we introduce a scaling matrix.

12
In this case, the scaling matrix is a diagonal with ones and the slack
variables.
With this scaling, we define the scaled gradient, Jacobian, and Hessian.

13
We also define the Lagrange multiplier obtained by least squares, and the
approximation of the multiplier on iteration k. Note that we enforce the signal
of the mulitipliers close to the solution.

14
And the projected gradient using the least squares multipliers, and the
approximation on iteration k.

15
The normal step starts by updating the lagrange multiplier and the projected
gradient.
We then update the radius and the barrier parameter.
We check if the point is inside the trust cylinder. If it is, we leave the
normal step. Otherwise, find a point inside the small cylinder through a
internal normal step, and repeat the procedure.
Note that there can be more than one internal normal steps, but there can also
be none.

16
The internal normal step is obtained through a modification of a method proposed
by Francisco, Krejić and Martínez.
We start with a Cauchy direction, scale it to the bounds. Then we do the same
with a Newton direction. The internal normal step is a convex combination of
these directions that provides sufficient decrease to a quadratic model
function.

17
The tangent step problem is a quadratic approximation of the Lagrangian function
with linear constraints, and bounds which include a trust region.
It is solved with a modification of Steihaug's method.

18
We start the tangent step obtaining a direction from this problem.
If this direction provides sufficient decrease and the iterate remains inside
the larger cylinder, the direction is accepted. Otherwise, we reduce the trust
region and repeat the process.
After accepting a direction, we can optionally compute a second order
correction.

19
As a simple example, let's consider this equality problem of finding the point
in this parabola that minimizes the distance to the origin, starting from the
point (2,3).

20
In this figure, we can see the feasible set is this solid black curve.
The small cylinder is limited by the dashed red curves, and the big cylinder is
limited by the dotted red curves.
The blue circle is the starting point, and the ellipses are the function level
sets.
We make a normal step placing the point inside the cylinder.
We update the radius and accept the new point, because it
is still inside the small cylinder.
We make a tangent step which is too big, so we reject it.
We reduce the tangent problem radius, and make a new step. This step is limited
by the trust region - the dashed green line.
This step is inside the big cylinder and we have sufficient decrease.
We accept the point, and end the first iteration.

21
Now I will present another example, with an inequality.
This problem is to find the minimum distance of the point (0,-1) to the region
above this parabola and on this line.
Since this problem has two variables plus a slack variable, the cylinder would
have to be in three dimensions.
We will prevent that by using only a slice parallel to the x plane.
The cut will be made at the value of the slack variable.

22
We use the same colors and line styles as before, with the addition of this
thicker solid black line that denotes the value of the slack variable.
We start at this point. Since we are already inside the small cylinder, no
internal normal step is made.
A horizontal step is tried, that is very large, and does not provide sufficient
decrease.
Note that the cylinders and the thicker parabola disappear because the value of
the slack variable is too large.
We reduce the trust region and obtain a direction providing sufficient decrease
and inside the big cylinder.
We accept this point and proceed to the next iteration.
We make another normal step,
update the cylinder radius,
make a tangent step,
accept it,
and repeat this process until the optimality conditions are satisfied.

23
Now I present the convergence properties of the method.
We consider this four hypothesis at first.
Nothing very strict here, and most are enforced by the algorithm.

24
With those assumptions, the method either stops in a stationary point,
or is has stationary points in its accumulation set.
If we also include these conditions,
every accumulation point is stationary.

25
For the local convergence, we have to separate the active constraints
at the solution.
We assume another 5 conditions.
The first are bounds.
The second is regarding the
positivity of the hessian approximations.
The third is about the equivalence of the general and the
active optimality.
The fourth is about the tangent step close to the solution.
And the last is about the form of the normal step.

26
With the 9 hypothesis shown, the method is 2-step superlinearly
convergent. If a restoration is made every iteration, then
the method is superlinearly convergent.

27
Now, regarding infeasible problems, we consider these hypothesis
about the normal step algorithm, which are very canon.

28
With the global and these last two assumptions, the sequence generated
by the normal step algorithm will have stationary points for the
infeasibility problem in its accumulation set.

29
The method was implemented in C++. We called the algorithm DCICPP.
We decided to build it atop the Cholesky library CHOLMOD, using
a wrapper for its data structures.
The algorithm is online on Github, and is under the
GNU Public License.
We used ...

30
To test our algorithm we considerered 514 problems from CUTEst.
We compare our algorithm with ALGENCAN. We used to compare with IPOPT too, but
they don't have a interface for CUTEst yet.
We removed the problems with fixed variables, because we don't deal with that
yet.
We also removed the problems that were too small, in the sense that, our
competitor, ALGENCAN, returned time 0.00 for these problems.
We consider two subset of problems: the ones where the Jacobians are always full
rank, which means that Cholesky does not fail, and also the problems that are
small or medium.

31
This performance profile compares the subset of problems where the Jacobian
always has full rank. The red curve is our method. It shows a competitive
method.

32
This figure shows the smaller subset removing the large problems.
Our method has a visible advantage. This was already suspected since Cholesky
can have very bad performance for very large matrices.

33
These figures show the the impact of considering the problems with singular
Jacobians. We can see that the overall performance of the method diminishes.
In this case we still have a competitive method.

34
Here we include the large problems again. In this case, our method does not
performs well.

35
Out next steps are to implement support to fixed variables;
improve the strategies for singular Jacobians;
implement a version of the method with conjugate gradient;
investigate individual problems.

36-38
Our references.

39
and thank you.
